---
layout: post  
authors: ["Raniere Silva"]
title: "Announcing for Lesson Infrastructure Subcommittee"
date: 2017-01-13
time: "16:00:00"
category: ["Lesson Infrastructure Subcommittee"]
---

One of the issues that we have with the
[styles](https://github.com/swcarpentry/styles),
[lesson-example](https://github.com/swcarpentry/lesson-example), and
[workshop-template](https://github.com/swcarpentry/workshop-template)
repositories is that some issues or pull request just sit around
for a long time because of the lack of ownership of those repositories.
Going on with the [Proposal for Lesson Infrastructure Subcommittee](https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/issues/155),
that will try to solve that issue,
we would like to announce that Subcommittee calendar for 2017.

|-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| Month     | Activities                                                      |
|-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| February  | Lesson Infrastructure Subcommittee meeting.                     |
| April     | Lesson Infrastructure Subcommittee meeting.                     |
| May       | Repositories freeze for release.                                |
| June      | Lesson release and Lesson Infrastructure Subcommittee meeting.  |
| September | Lesson Infrastructure Subcommittee meeting.                     |
| October   | Repositories freeze for release.                                |
| November  | Lesson release and Lesson Infrastructure Subcommittee meeting.  |
|-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------------|

If you are the maintainer of a Software Carpentry or Data Carpentry
and want to vote on issues or pull request on
[styles](https://github.com/swcarpentry/styles),
[lesson-example](https://github.com/swcarpentry/lesson-example), or
[workshop-template](https://github.com/swcarpentry/workshop-template)
repositores please email [Kate Hertweck](mailto:k8hertweck@gmail.com)
or [Raniere Silva](mailto:raniere@rgaiacs.com)
until **[January 27th 23:59 Pacific Time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Software+Carpentry+Lesson+Infrastructure+Subcommittee+Call+Deadline&iso=20170127T235959&p1=224)**.

Once we have the list of Lesson Infrastructure Subcommittee members
we will find a suitable time for meeting
between February 6th and February 10th.

We will continue to welcome issues and pull request to
[styles](https://github.com/swcarpentry/styles),
[lesson-example](https://github.com/swcarpentry/lesson-example), and
[workshop-template](https://github.com/swcarpentry/workshop-template)
and making our lessons a community effort.
