1. I am not an instructor trainer and I really have no idea how training is working these days. I got the gist of it from the description, but there were a handful of questions the trainees had that I couldn't answer. Things like, "Who is going to be administering the 5 minute test?" and "Is all of the material in the lesson fair game?" (this was for the R section, where there are lessons on package development - does anyone actually teach that at a novice bootcamp???). It might be nice to include a link in the instructions for these discussions to the description of the checkout procedure so that the discussion leaders can go over that (if they aren't familiar) or we can pass that on to the trainees who have these questions. 

2. It's unclear to me how many people still need to go to a discussion section. I made a few sign ups (some that no one signed up for), but should I keep creating sessions? It might be nice to have a section on the etherpad where the trainees put their name down if they want a session on a particular topic so we can get a sense of how many people are out there yet. It's a pain to block off an hour to do a session and then not have anyone sign up to do it! At the same time, I'm really happy to do more sessions, so if there's a need I'm very happy to keep adding some slots.

3. I have no idea if others have had issues with professionalism from the trainees, but I had a learner who signed up for a session, didn't show (but didn't take their name off the etherpad so I thought they were going to), signed up again for a different session, showed 10 minutes late to that session, and then asked if I wait for a half hour while they read over the lesson material because they had been too busy to prepare. I think 99% of people would never do that, but perhaps it could be communicated to only sign up for those calls if you think you'd be ready to do your 5 minute spiel?

