---
layout: page
authors: ["Greg Wilson"]
title: Minutes from 2012-12-19
time: "09:00:00 All-Hands Meeting"
date: 2012-12-19
time: "09:00:00"
tags: ["Community", "Software Carpentry"]
---

<p><b>This post originally appeared on the <a href="https://software-carpentry.org/">Software Carpentry website.</a></b></p>
<p>Our second all-hands meeting was held on Wednesday, December 19, from 12:00-13:10 Eastern time.</p>

<hr/>

<p><b>Actions</b></p>

<ul>
  <li><em>Dhavide Aruliah</em>
    <ul>
      <li>Co-author bullet-points and cheat sheet for Unix shell</li>
      <li>Co-author bullet-points and cheat sheet for basic Python</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><em>Amy Brown</em>
    <ul>
      <li>Proof-read Code of Conduct</li>
      <li>Add Code of Conduct to bootcamp "how-to"</li>
      <li>Create graphic for "Participant" badge</li>
      <li>Create PDF certificates for "Participant", "Instructor", and "Organizer"</li>
      <li>Add wording to web site to clarify what does/doesn't qualify for use of "Software Carpentry" name and logo</li>
      <li>Add wording to web site asking people to let us know if they're using our material, and requiring them to check with us if they're using our name/logo</li>
      <li>Keep track of who's talking to what sites about bootcamps</li>
      <li>Get explicit retroactive signoff on contributions</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><em>Neil Chue Hong</em>
    <ul>
      <li>Contact OSS-Watch regarding enforcing trademarks for our material</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><em>Matt Davis</em>
    <ul>
      <li>Arrange bootcamp at Cal Poly</li>
      <li>Arrange bootcamp at San Diego State</li>
      <li>matplotlib material</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><em>Ted Hart</em>
    <ul>
      <li>Co-author bullet-points and cheat sheet for regular expressions</li>
      <li>Arrange bootcamp at ESA conf.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><em>Bernhard Konrad</em>
    <ul>
      <li>Co-author bullet-points and cheat sheet for testing</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><em>Emily Jane McTavish</em>
    <ul>
      <li>Co-author bullet-points and cheat sheet for regular expressions</li>
      <li>Create ticket to arrange bootcamp at U. Kansas</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><em>Geoff Oxberry</em>
    <ul>
      <li>Create ticket to arrange bootcamp at U. Delaware</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><em>Cait Pickens</em>
    <ul>
      <li>Co-author bullet-points and cheat sheet for Git</li>
      <li>Co-author bullet-points and cheat sheet for basic Python</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><em>Karthik Ram</em>
    <ul>
      <li>Co-author bullet-points and cheat sheet for Git</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><em>Joon Ro</em>
    <ul>
      <li>matplotlib material</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><em>Alex Viana</em>
    <ul>
      <li>Co-author bullet-points and cheat sheet for SQL</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><em>Ben Waugh</em>
    <ul>
      <li>Co-author bullet-points and cheat sheet for testing</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><em>Ethan White</em>
    <ul>
      <li>Co-author bullet-points and cheat sheet for SQL</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><em>Lynne Williams</em>
    <ul>
      <li>Co-author bullet-points and cheat sheet for Unix shell</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><em>Greg Wilson</em>
    <ul>
      <li>Publish Code of Conduct to web site</li>
      <li>Retroactively issue "Participant" badges for 2012 bootcamp attendees</li>
      <li>Issue "Instructor" and "Organizer" badges</li>
      <li>Finish Instructor's Guide by end of Jan 2013</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><em>All</em>
    <ul>
      <li>Check locally to ensure that it's OK to ask bootcamp participants to agree Code of Conduct</li>
      <li>Claim ticket for "Arrange bootcamp at [site]"</li>
      <li>Introduce us to one more potential bootcamp site for 2013</li>
      <li>Volunteer to help with online office hours
        <ul>
          <li>Dhavide Aruliah</li>
          <li>Erik Bray</li>
          <li>Shreyas Cholia</li>
          <li>Matt Davis</li>
          <li>Ross Dickson</li>
          <li>Steve Haddock</li>
          <li>Mike Hansen</li>
          <li>Geoff Oxberry</li>
          <li>Cait Pickens</li>
          <li>Alex Viana</li>
          <li>Ben Waugh</li>
          <li>Ethan White</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Send Greg a picture of yourself in a Software Carpentry t-shirt</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<hr/>

<p><b>Roll Call</b></p>
<ul>
  <li>Aron Ahmadia</li>
  <li>Carlos Anderson</li>
  <li>Dhavide Aruliah</li>
  <li>David Ascher</li>
  <li>Azalee Bostroem</li>
  <li>Erik Bray</li>
  <li>Amy Brown</li>
  <li>Shreyas Cholia</li>
  <li>Neil Chue Hong</li>
  <li>Warren Code</li>
  <li>Matt Davis</li>
  <li>Gabriel Devenyi</li>
  <li>Ross Dickson</li>
  <li>Justin Ely</li>
  <li>Steve Haddock</li>
  <li>Ted Hart</li>
  <li>Konrad Hinsen</li>
  <li>Katy Huff</li>
  <li>Trevor King</li>
  <li>Ian Langmore</li>
  <li>Chris Lasher</li>
  <li>Emily Jane McTavish</li>
  <li>Cameron Neylon</li>
  <li>Geoffrey Oxberry</li>
  <li>Cait Pickens</li>
  <li>Karthik Ram</li>
  <li>Anthony Scopatz</li>
  <li>Alex Viana</li>
  <li>Ben Waugh</li>
  <li>Ethan White</li>
  <li>Lynne Williams</li>
  <li>Greg Wilson</li>
</ul>

<hr/>

<p><b>Minutes</b></p>

<ol>
  <li>Staffing
    <ul>
      <li>Amy Brown from Continuum to help with administration starting Jan 2013.</li>
      <li>Jon Pipitone to help with web site and online tutorials starting Jan 2013.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Moved to Git
    <ul>
      <li>Git tutorials to be folded together and put into lessons to teach to scientists</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Code of Conduct
    <ul>
      <li>Many sites not sure that we can set a code of conduct for events that happen on campus</li>
      <li>Code of conduct modeled on the <a href="https://us.pycon.org/2012/codeofconduct/">PyCon Code of Conduct</a></li>
      <li>Those who have hosted events/or know of events scheduled at US universitites, please check and let Greg know what your local policy is</li>
      <li>Might apply to overseas schools too (e.g., Saudi Arabia)</li>
      <li>Problems with inappropriate behavious at bootcamps:
        <ul>
          <li>Rare for problems, but nice to let people know expectations in advance</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Criteria for Badges
    <ul>
      <li>Criteria needs to be clear to ensure the instructors are qualified</li>
      <li>Previous instructors will be grandfathered in</li>
      <li>Badges for learners important as part of grant QA process
        <ul>
          <li>Obstacles:
            <ul>
              <li>No way to know what attendees learned</li>
              <li>Not allowed to publish identifying information without consent --&gt; we would need sign-off giving permission to publish names</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>Greg: "We could do a participant badge with consent". Also mentioned "Driver's License Test" to come in future</li>
          <li>Will use <a href="http://openbadges.org">http://openbadges.org</a> as a badging tool</li>
          <li>Motion passed "Participant Badges" --&gt; will contact 2012's attendees to tell them they can have a record of attendance
            <ul>
              <li>Will postpone assigning skill specific Participant badges until we have specific criteria (to be developed by the spring)</li>
              <li>Amy will be designing PDF for certificate</li>
              <li>Past participants can apply for badges post-attendance</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Use of "Software Carpentry" Name
    <ul>
      <li>If events focus on four general areas okay:
        <ul>
          <li>modular program structure</li>
          <li>task automation</li>
          <li>version control</li>
          <li>testing</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>If the event does not fall into one (or more) of these categories, then they cannot call their workshop/bootcamp Software Carpentry or use the Software Carpentry logo</li>
      <li>Not trying to stop people we don't know from using materials, trying to stop people not teaching SWC content areas from using SWC name.</li>
      <li>Greg still needs to speak with a lawyer about international trademark laws
        <ul>
          <li>Ian Mitchell has a draft, but policy still needs legal review</li>
          <li>Greg will circulate draft later</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Trademark only licensed in Canada currently</li>
      <li>Need to have people to check with SWC central before using the name. Even if we can't legally enforce it (Thanks Konrad!)</li>
      <li>Motion passed "use of Software Carpentry"</li>
      <li>Neil Chue Hong will get in touch with OSS-Watch regarding enforcing trademarks for open source software</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Volunteers to write three-line summary of modules for pre-bootcamp circulation as well as cheat sheets for use in bootcamps
    <ul>
      <li>People going to bootcamps not entirely sure what they will be learning</li>
      <li>Need summary of what SWC teaches to include in agenda</li>
      <li>Summary (for before the workshop) + cheat sheet required --&gt; makes sense for pairs to work on both bcause they will have to think about all the same issues.</li>
      <li>Unix shell - Dhavide -- Lynne
        <ul>
          <li>Fernando and I gave out <a href="http://fosswire.com/post/2007/08/unixlinux-command-cheat-sheet/">this UNIX cheat sheet</a> at the last workshop:
            <ul>
              <li>It's CC licensed; might be helpful as a starting point at least, but we liked it.</li>
              <li>That cheat sheet is CC BY-SA, and SWC is CC BY, but maybe not a problem if you keep the cheat sheet separate.</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Version control with Git  - Cait, Karthik.</li>
      <li>Basic Python --Dhavide, Cait</li>
      <li>Testing Ben, Bernhard (if you want help) (Yes, thanks, will e-mail you.)</li>
      <li>SQL -- Ethan, Alex Viana</li>
      <li>Regular Expressions - Emily Jane, Ted [what portion of bootcamps include regexp?] [I don't know in general- but folks at UT really liked them last week][I like them too, but we didn't cover them] [Do you guys also cover regexp testers? <a href="http://kodos.sourceforge.net/about.html">Kodos</a> is super useful for Python. [like regexpal?]I use regexpal as well Cool! --&gt; grep and sed in shell scripting</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Volunteers to write cheat sheets for modules for use in bootcamps
    <ul>
      <li>See prevous point on 3 line summary.  The volunteers for each section will do both the 3 line summary and the cheat sheet</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Volunteers to lead "sales" conversation with not-yet-scheduled bootcamps
    <ul>
      <li>Go to the <a href="{{site.github_url}}/website/issues">SWC GitHub repo</a> and volunteer to help coordinate workshop</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Volunteers to make introductions to new sites
    <ul>
      <li>Companies are okay, even though focus is on public sector</li>
      <li>Bootcamps do not have to be in English; welcome moving the material to other host countries</li>
      <li>Amy to keep track of who is talking with which sites</li>
      <li>[katy] Argonne!
        <ul>
          <li>Katy: Other Chicago area school ideas?  [katy] other than UChicago, which we're doing... I can't bottom-line more than one more before this summer... but I could help at Northwestern, UIC. I don't really have contacts at those places... but... hm. [cait] I don't have contacts either (undergrad at Lake Forest College, north of the city, but no grad students there). Northwestern could be interesting. </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>[Geoff] Livermore? I could do Philadelphia-area sites also, with enough advance notice, since I grew up around there. I went to the University of Delaware, and can talk to them.</li>
      <li>[Emily Jane] University of Kansas</li>
      <li>[Ted] I have a proposal in for ESA 2013 (Ecological society). [Karthik] yay Ted. I'm maxed out on ESA workshops but will help run it if I don't have schedule conflicts. let me know.</li>
      <li>[Geoff] I could do one at the AIChE conference; it's being run in San Francisco, so it's easy for me to add another couple days.[Karthik] I'm in SF and can help.</li>
      <li>[Matt] Cal Poly, San Diego State</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Volunteers for online office hours (Jan-Feb, once a week)
    <ul>
      <li>Online tutorials not well attended last summer</li>
      <li>Will test having individual help to answer that question</li>
      <li>Greg/John will send out a call in the new year</li>
      <li>Volunteers willing to give 1 hour per week:
        <ul>
          <li>Steve Haddock: sounds like fun to try. </li>
          <li>Dhavide Aruliah: I'm willing to give it a go for an hour on Wednesdays...</li>
          <li>Ethan White: Count me in</li>
          <li>Mike Hansen: I'm onboard.</li>
          <li>Ben Waugh: me too, and have some funding to pay grad students to help</li>
          <li>Matt Davis: Definitely in for this.</li>
          <li>Cait Pickens: I'm in</li>
          <li>Geoff Oxberry: I'm in, after I get trained in the study group</li>
          <li>Ross Dickson: volunteers</li>
          <li>Erik Bray</li>
          <li>Alex Viana</li>
          <li>Shreyas Cholia: onboard assuming travel schedule is not too hectic</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Hosts please encourage people to use the service once it goes online</li>
      <li>Goal is to give people enough knowledge to ask their questions on something like StackOverflow</li>
      <li>Lynne to track questions/responses and create FAQ page for webpage</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Volunteers for minor tasks
    <ul>
      <li>Someone to volunteer to write numpy/matplotlib (<a href="{{site.github_url}}/website/issues/72)">#72</a>) [Joon Ro just developed some material as well] [I thought Matt had a start on this?]</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Developers Certificate of Origin/Signed-off-by for Git(Hub) commits.  <a href="https://github.com/wking/signed-off-by/blob/master/Documentation/SubmittingPatches">https://github.com/wking/signed-off-by/blob/master/Documentation/SubmittingPatches</a>
    <ul>
      <li>Need retroactive clearance for open source for content developers</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Applying to Sloan Foundation to have someone work FT for SWC for a year</li>
  <li>New teacher materials? - Instructor's Guide Partially Exists
    <ul>
      <li>Hopefully by end of January with John's help</li>
      <li>Next round of study group starts off in January.  Let Greg know if you would like to participate</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Big picture question (maybe folded into discussion of long-term assessment): Are two-day workshops the best model for making a difference? I am becoming skeptical about how much sticks two months later...[Steve]
    <ul>
      <li>Greg: "If you can give a three week or three month one, tell me and let me know how it goes."</li>
      <li>We have done a couple 2-week class (and official univeristy quarter-long).</li>
      <li>The two-day format seems good at telling you what you should learn, but not necessarily teaching it (with implications for curriculum).</li>
      <li>I like week long formats, personally [Anthony]</li>
      <li>I'm a fan of 2 day workshops, long enough to get some real material in, but able to fit into busy schedules  [Emily Jane]</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
<li>Greg's Last Request: Send to Greg a nice hi-res photo of yourself in the SWC T-Shirt.</li>
</ol>
