---
layout: post
authors: ["Pariksheet Nanda"]
title: "Git lesson using worksheets"
date: 2018-05-26
time: "11:39:00"
tags: ["Workshops", "Teaching", "Git", "Software Carpentry"]
---

I attended my first Software Carpentry workshop in 2015 as a helper and was
mesmerized by how Ivan Gonzalez taught the Git lesson using an easel pad and
different colored markers.  He had separate boxes for the working directory,
stage and history and went back and forth between the terminal and drawing on
the pad to recap his last set of commands.  Ever since, Git has been one of my
favorite lessons to teach, because the material has depth and is challenging to
explain, but it can be taught well with the help of Ivan's drawings and the well
maintained lesson materials.

The Git drawings seemed to work well until last year when I taught in a room
with afternoon sunlight and a difficult to see blackboard.  I was scheduled to
teach in the same room at a workshop earlier this month, and to remedy the
hard-to-see blackboard, I used a document camera and drew on a worksheet
instead.

Herein was a nice opportunity: why not have the learners also draw long?  During
my PhD studies, I've had two classes, biochemistry and phylogenetics, where the
instructor had us draw along and I found I enjoyed drawing things in the
classroom.  How often does one get to draw as an adult?  I was instantly
transported back to kindergarden.

In addition to the Git drawing section at the top of the worksheet, I added a
cheatsheet of the Git commands we would be covering that afternoon with little
checkboxes next to the commands.  That way, learners can get the visceral
feeling of checking off a command when it is covered and understood (or have an
opportunity to protest if it wasn't understood).

Drawing along can have educational value in addition to feeling good.  In
Chapters 4 and 5 of
["How to Teach Programming (and Other Things)"](http://third-bit.com/teaching/)
Greg Wilson discusses combining words with visuals (dual coding) and of the need
to slowly present a diagram in pieces to later help trigger recall of what was
said by pointing at the diagram.

Here is the cheetsheet
[clean](https://github.com/omsai/git-swc-worksheet/releases/tag/v2018.05.10) and
filled-in:

![Filled in worksheet git-swc-worksheet_filled_2018-05-10_500px.png](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/166624/40854696-3eec00f8-65a0-11e8-99e4-7bd4c893e93e.png)

The reason to use arrows of the history items pointing back to their immediate
previous items is to make the "detached HEAD" error state more clear.  When we
create the detached HEAD state in the classroom, we don't see recent commits
because the history items are only aware of their previous commits; or at least
that's a good enough mental model of Git's true behavior.

Learner
[sticky note feedback](https://github.com/tem11010/2018-05-10-UConn/wiki/Stickies-feedback#day-1-afternoon-git)
from that section of the workshop is slightly clouded by some confusion during
the collaboration section in the late afternoon, and because Git was taught
without teaching the Shell first.  I will use the worksheets again at a more
traditional workshop in 2 months and hope you will also try using Git
worksheets!
