---
layout: page
authors: ["Greg Wilson"]
title: "Interim Board Meeting: Oct 14, 2014"
date: 2014-10-14
time: "19:30:00"
tags: ["Governance", "Software Carpentry"]
---

<p><b>This post originally appeared on the <a href="https://software-carpentry.org/">Software Carpentry website.</a></b></p>
<p>Software Carpentry Foundation Interim Board Meeting: Oct 14, 2014</p>
<!--more-->
<p>Attending</p>
<ul>
<li>Jenny Bryan (Univ of British Columbia)</li>
<li>Josh Greenberg (Sloan Foundation)</li>
<li>Katy Huff (UC Berkeley)</li>
<li>Damien Irving (University of Melbourne)</li>
<li>Neil Chue Hong (Software Sustainability Institute)</li>
<li>Adam Stone (Berkeley Lab)</li>
<li>Tracy Teal (Michigan State / Data Carpentry)</li>
<li>Kaitlin Thaney (Mozilla Science Lab, audio only)</li>
<li>Greg Wilson (Software Carpentry)</li>
<li>David Ascher (Mozilla) - on Etherpad, but not on call</li>
</ul>
<p>Actions</p>
<ul>
<li>Board: next meeting on Tue Nov 4 (same time)</li>
<li>Board: submit corrections/extensions to governance doc via pull requests by Oct 24</li>
<li>DI + GW + NCH + KT: define process for communication and issue escalation among workshop coordinators</li>
<li>KT + JG + JB + NCH: talk about GW's salary from Nov 1</li>
<li>AS + KH: arrange AS access to GitHub repositories</li>
<li>JB + KH: transfer ownership of draft grants material to Software Carpentry board group</li>
<li>GW: find out how much notice we need to give NumFOCUS to have a rep attend a board meeting</li>
<li>GW: re-add note to governance doc about SCF board deciding scope of SWC project</li>
<li>GW: circulate minutes from last two meetings for approval before putting in public repository</li>
</ul>
<p>Resolutions</p>
<ul>
<li>KH + TT + GW will be signatores on the NumFOCUS FSA</li>
<li>Documents stored in two GitHub repositories</li>
<li>Public (things go here by default): {{site.github_url}}/board</li>
<li>Private: {{site.github_url}}/board_pvt</li>
<li>Send minutes to board mailing list for correction/redaction of personal information</li>
<li>Put into public repository one week after meeting</li>
<li>Escalation</li>
<li>Workshop coordinators promote issues to project lead as needed</li>
<li>Project lead promotes to board as needed</li>
<li>Coordinators may go directly to the board if they feel it appropriate</li>
</ul>
<p>Summary</p>
<ul>
<li>Date of next meeting</li>
<li>GW: propose Tue Nov 4 3:30 EDT
<ul>
<li>NCH: may not be able to do it</li>
</ul></li>
<li>passes: if NCH is unable to make it, choose a chair closer to the day</li>
<li>Final approval for signing up with NumFOCUS</li>
<li>KH, TT, GW as signatories</li>
<li>passes</li>
<li>Mechanics of storing SCF documents (KH)</li>
<li>Public Repo : {{site.github_url}}/board
<ul>
<li>minutes will hold summaries of the chat window</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Private Repo : {{site.github_url}}/board_pvt</li>
<li>Board Team : https://github.com/orgs/swcarpentry/teams/board</li>
<li>Procedure for when we make things public?
<ul>
<li>e.g. minutes</li>
<li>Once there is a milestone version, we can introduce a period of review on the listhost</li>
<li>After a week of discussion on the listhost, things will become public.</li>
<li>passes</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Should grants stuff go in board_pvt?
<ul>
<li>Probably not but once we have time to discuss this (probably not today) we can tackle that.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Discussion of governance and core vs non-core activities</li>
<li>Re-add note about board deciding scope of Software Carpentry (what's in/what's out)</li>
<li>Do we think that it is useful to have a NumFOCUS rep observe at the Board meetings?
<ul>
<li>NumFocus have offered to attend Board meetings</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Do we need the governance document to be in particular format (for legal reasons)?
<ul>
<li>Yes, soon but not immediately</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Who fights copyright / trademark ?
<ul>
<li>NumFOCUS (because they will own the trademarks)</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Q: what can/should be handled by admin staff like Arliss, what needs to be pushed up to the board?</li>
<li>proposal: admins promote to the project lead as needed, project lead promotes to the board as needed, admins encouraged to go direct to the board if they feel appropriate</li>
<li>passes</li>
<li>Discussion of budget</li>
<li>Josh: "SCF = steward of the public goods for SWC". Institutional partners contribute to SCF to support that.</li>
<li>Who organises the "special" workshops, like WiSE workshops? (or little efforts by, say, grad students, who don't have easy access to funding streams or event coordination abilities)
<ul>
<li>Does a central "workshop coordinator of last resort" need to paid by taxing institutional contributors?</li>
<li>Are there any funders who would support this? Possibly not?</li>
<li>why would institutions be happier paying for program management than for coordination?</li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Can we make it so that institutional partner contributions aren't calculated such that early contributors don't end up paying more because they are subsidising the lack of other contributors?</p></li>
<li>From the chat:</li>
<li>DI: Whatever happened to each individual workshop giving money for core?
<ul>
<li>GW: we've been asking for donations - hasn't been particularly successful</li>
</ul></li>
<li>JB: Re: a donation to support a specific workshop, how do we feel about a donation to support development of curriculum for specific topic?
<ul>
<li>DI: At UniMelb we are getting money from the Australian National Data Service to develop capstone examples using Australian data</li>
</ul></li>
<li>DI: Does [organization's] contribution to the 'core' have to be money?
<ul>
<li>GW: alternatives?</li>
<li>DI: Not sure. I just know that [some orgs] will probably not want to contribute money to core.</li>
<li>JG: the only "in kind" support to core budget lines according to my strict definition would be salary for the project leads (not workshop coordination)</li>
</ul></li>
<li>TT: I'm a little concerned that all workshop coordination is being 'outsourced' to institutional partners, and it makes it hard to coordinate as a whole</li>
<li>JB: It would be hard to get grant money to SWCF to support workshop coordination. That should be for curriculum development and advocacy.</li>
<li>DI: At what point do you become an institution that is doing so much SWC stuff that they should start giving money? 3 workshops a year? More? Less?</li>
<li><p>GW: overhead to ramp up on workshop coordination machinery is (unfortunately) considerable at the moment, so volunteers stepping in to coordinate a workshop now and again is impractical</p></li>
</ul>
