---
layout: page
authors: ["Greg Wilson"]
title: "Interim Board Meeting: Sep 16, 2014"
date: 2014-09-16
time: "19:30:00"
tags: ["Governance", "Software Carpentry"]
---

<p><b>This post originally appeared on the <a href="https://software-carpentry.org/">Software Carpentry website.</a></b></p>
<p>Software Carpentry Foundation Interim Board Meeting: Sep 16, 2014</p>
<!--more-->
<p>Attending</p>
<ul>
<li>NCH: Neil Chue Hong (Software Sustainability Institute) - chair</li>
<li>GW: Greg Wilson (Software Carpentry)</li>
<li>JB: Jenny Bryan (Univ of British Columbia)</li>
<li>CG: Carole Goble (U. Manchester)</li>
<li>KH: Katy Huff (UC Berkeley)</li>
<li>DI: Damien Irving (University of Melbourne / Research Platforms)</li>
<li>AS: Adam Stone (Berkeley Lab)</li>
<li>KT: Kaitlin Thaney (Mozilla Science Lab)</li>
<li>TT: Tracy Teal (Michigan State / Data Carpentry)</li>
<li>DA: David Ascher (Mozilla) - nonvoting</li>
<li>JG: Josh Greenberg (Sloan Foundation) - nonvoting</li>
</ul>
<p>Actions</p>
<ul>
<li>CG: speak with Force11 about how they had overcome issues to do with staffing / taking in money from other countries?</li>
<li>DA: elaborate on Eclipse Foundation board structure</li>
<li>GW + TT + JG: create a budget for ongoing operations [revised: was originally KH instead of TT]</li>
<li>KT: set up spreadsheet to track current budget/resourcing</li>
<li>NCH + GW + KH to draft press release and circulate for comments [revised: was originally TT instead of KH]</li>
<li>TT + JB: set up repository for tracking grant opportunities and grants submitted</li>
<li>Board: circulate proposals for announcement dates (with rationales) by email before Sept 30 meeting so we can vote</li>
<li>Board: vote on Sept 30 on (a) wording of press release and (b) announcement date</li>
<li>Board: send questions about NumFOCUS to GW by Monday Sept 22</li>
<li>e.g., can NumFOCUS be an employer for tax/insurance purposes, or would people be independent contractors paid by NumFOCUS?</li>
<li>Board: propose alternatives to 501(c)3 status to mailing list by Wed Sept 24 for discussion</li>
<li>Board: circulate proposals for handling funding streams (especially out-of-US contributions) to mailing list for discussion on Sept 30</li>
<li>Board: contribute to KT spreadsheet</li>
<li>Board: send material to TT for grant repository (past, present, and future)</li>
</ul>
<p>Summary</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Introductions</p></li>
<li>Date/time of next meeting</li>
<li><p>Agreed: Sept 30 at 19:30 UTC (audio + Etherpad only)</p></li>
<li>Discussion of timeline</li>
<li>What are our preferred dates for:
<ul>
<li>public announcement</li>
<li>formalizing legal status</li>
<li>reconstituting the board</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Obvious dates for public announcement include:
<ul>
<li>before Train the Trainers/MozFest in UK (Oct 22-26, 2014)</li>
<li>before U. Washington Train the Trainers (Nov 12-14, 2014)</li>
</ul></li>
<li>General preference was October (ties in with grant cycles)
<ul>
<li>General consensus: earlier is better to avoid confusion in the community and reduce risk of inadvertent disclosure</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Minimum that needs to be decided before announcement can be made:
<ul>
<li>that the SCF is being created (done)</li>
<li>that it has an interim board with representation from organizations and instructors (done)</li>
<li>that it will have non-profit status in the US (not decided - see below)</li>
<li>mission statement (draft attached for comments)</li>
<li>process for existing organizations providing support (turned into governance discussion summarized below)</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Governance</li>
<li>Individual (instructor/contributor) membership: uncontentious</li>
<li>Organizational/institutional/funder membership: many issues to resolve
<ul>
<li>Requirements for becoming an organizational member?</li>
<li>Does every organization supporting SCF get a board seat? (Could make for an unmanageably large board.)</li>
<li>KH: American Nuclear Society uses a percentage bar (so largest N contributors get seats)</li>
<li>JG: be careful not to conflate fundraising with governance</li>
<li>DI balance of institutional board members vs instructors, institutional not to outnumber instructors</li>
<li>NCH: 1/3 institutional, 1/3 instructors, 1/3 appointed is typical recommended UK charitable service foundation arrangement</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Kinds of boards:
<ul>
<li>Python Software Foundation: large and active (most PSF work done by board members)</li>
<li>Mozilla Foundation: smaller; oversight rather than implementation</li>
<li>Eclipse Foundation: a large board that works successfully - could be a model in case of &quot;catastrophic success&quot; (DA)</li>
<li>Force11</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Q&amp;A
<ul>
<li>Do we have a governance document yet for stuff like voting, budget, throwing people out, etc.?</li>
<li>No</li>
<li>Is organizational membership the only way to contribute to Software Carpentry?</li>
<li>No: hope/expect people will write us into other grants, sponsor events (e.g., WiSE workshops), etc.</li>
<li>Is US 501(c)3 decided on?</li>
<li>No, but no other proposals have been made yet</li>
<li>Is NumFOCUS decided on?</li>
<li>No: GW will gather answers to questions in advance of Sept 30 meeting</li>
<li>Alternatives mentioned include Software Freedom Conservancy, a free-standing 501(c)3, a 501(c)6, or going through a university</li>
<li>How do people outside the US donate?</li>
<li>Unknown</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Operations</li>
<li>What is the core budget needed to operate minimum staff and what are the projections?
<ul>
<li>Action item below: create budget</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Current effort:
<ul>
<li>Sloan/Mozilla: 1.0 FTE for project lead, 0.75 FTE for workshop coordination, but not all Software Carpentry</li>
<li>SSI: 0.5 FTE for workshop coordination, 0.5 to fill in training, plus seed funds for workshops</li>
<li>ELIXIR: 1.0 FTE admin plus seed funds for workshops</li>
<li>ResBaz: ??? (DI to fill in)</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Required:
<ul>
<li>in the center:</li>
<li>1.0 FTE for project management/overall coordination/instructor training</li>
<li>1.0 FTE for curriculum development</li>
<li>regionally/organizationally:</li>
<li>workshop coordinators (funded by those organizations)</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>
