---
layout: post
authors: ["Belinda Weaver"]
title: "The Champions League"
date: 2017-08-07
time: "06:00:00"
category: [ "Community", "Champions", "Community Building"]
---

When people sign up for our newsletter, *Carpentry Clippings*, many mention community building as one of their key interests. 
We are lucky in the Carpentries to have so many people who want to build local groups. These people are champions. They
are the hard workers who volunteer their time to organise and run local workshops, recruit new instructors and helpers, 
teach and maintain our lessons, serve on committees and task forces, and generally help further the Carpentries' mission 
of skilling up researchers to do more efficient, reproducible science. 

Many of these champions have fantastic local knowledge, and many provide the backbone without which local events such as Hacky Hours, 
Research Bazaars (ResBaz), study groups or communities of practice around certain disciplines or tools would not exist. What they know
about community building is enormously valuable. We would like to tap into this well to create a toolbox so that anyone who wants to
become a local champion can see what works well to get the job done. 

Our ultimate aim is to develop a community building 'playbook' so that tried and tested methods can be transplanted easily to new 
spots around the world as we welcome more and more people into our Carpentries community. 

To kickstart a conversation, Jonah Duckles (Executive Director, Software Carpentry) and I (as Software and Data
Carpentry Community Development Lead) are planning to host a **Carpentry Champions** call at 8pm UTC on 22 August - [check the local date and time 
in your location](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Carpentries+Champions&iso=20170822T20&p1=%3A&ah=1). 

Sign up for the call on our [etherpad](http://pad.software-carpentry.org/champions), which will provide a list of
talking points and all the connection details.

We hope to see you there. We will write up the results of the call, and post it on this blog. We will also start a GitHub repo to 
capture all your great community building ideas. STay tuned for mroe details.
