---
layout: post
authors: ["Ryan Avery", "Kunal Marwaha"]
title: "Two Workshops at NASA DEVELOP"
date: 2017-07-06
time: "06:00:00"
category: [ "Debriefs", "Workshops"]
---

On 8-9 June, 2017, Katie Moore, Deputy Data Management Team Lead for the [NASA CERES](https://ceres.larc.nasa.gov/) Science Team, and 
Ryan Avery, Geoinformatics Fellow with the [NASA DEVELOP National Program](https://develop.larc.nasa.gov/), 
ran a self-organized workshop in Hampton, VA. 

On 12-13 June, 2017, Kunal Marwaha, 
a software engineer with Palantir, Kelly Meehan, Geoinformatics Fellow with NASA DEVELOP, and Ryan ran another 
self-organized workshop in Norton, VA. 

Both workshops focused on building skills in NASA DEVELOP participants, who work on 10-week feasibility projects 
that demonstrate how to apply NASA Earth observations to environmental concerns to enhance
project partner decision-making. In the process, both partners and participants gain a better understanding 
of NASA's Earth-observing (EO) capabilities and improve their professional and technical capacity to use EO data. 
For Katie, Kelly, and I, these were the first workshops in which we taught entire lessons 
and we found it to be an extremely rewarding experience.

### NASA DEVELOP at Langley Workshop
 
- Attendees Day 1: 19
- Attendees Day 2: 15
  
At the Hampton workshop, learners came from a variety of academic backgrounds and with a spectrum of skillsets. 
The majority of learners fell within environmental or planetary sciences, but we also had 
undergraduate and graduate students attending who were studying mathematics, chemical engineering, 
economics, physics, and social sciences. Because of the types of programs written for DEVELOP 
research projects, we opted to focus on covering programming fundamentals, leaving out most of 
the unix shell lesson after the working with directories section. 

For Python, we incorporated the Gapminder Variables and Assignment and Libraries lessons into the Inflammation lessons, which was a success. We also 
covered the Gapminder Plotting lesson, which ended up being a little redundant. The Git lesson excited and 
motivated most participants but also left some participants wondering when or if they would ever use Git. In our 
next workshop in Norton, VA, we changed our delivery of these lessons to include more hands-on examples. For most 
learners, the pace of the workshop was spot on, with a handful of respondents saying the pace was either too slow or too fast.
 
There were some technical issues with being able to open the Python interpreter from Git Bash. 
We solved this problem pretty quickly by creating a `.bashrc` file to point the Python command to the `python.exe` 
executable file. Instructions to do this have been documented on the [Configuration Problems](https://github.com/swcarpentry/workshop-template/wiki/Configuration-Problems-and-Solutions)
page. 

Another big lesson from this workshop was not to hold intensive two-day workshops during the orientation 
week of our program, when participants are tired out from getting accustomed to a new job. 
There was some drop off in attendance on the second day, however, overall feedback and survey 
responses were positive and most learners reported feeling more motivated and less intimidated by the Unix Shell, Python, and Git.
 
## Some of the feedback we got: 

**Good**

-	The sticky notes help system worked well and was a good idea
-	The pace, the instructors, and the content that was [provided] were fantastic. Thank you again.
-	Thank you Ryan and Katie! That was very helpful and very informative.

**Improve**

-	I would have loved a couple extra days to learn R, more bash, and sql!
- None that I can think of right now
