---
layout: page
authors: ["Greg Wilson"]
title: "Interim Board Meeting: Nov 4, 2014"
date: 2014-11-04
time: "19:30:00"
tags: ["Governance", "Software Carpentry"]
---

<p><b>This post originally appeared on the <a href="https://software-carpentry.org/">Software Carpentry website.</a></b></p>
<p>Software Carpentry Foundation Interim Board Meeting: Nov 4, 2014</p>
<!--more-->
<p>Attending</p>
<ul>
<li>Greg Wilson (Software Carpentry Foundation)</li>
<li>Neil Chue Hong (Software Sustainability Institute)</li>
<li>Kaitlin Thaney (Mozilla Science Lab)</li>
<li>Josh Greenberg (Sloan Foundation) - on etherpad</li>
<li>Jenny Bryan (UBC)</li>
<li>Damien Irving (University of Melbourne)</li>
<li>Tracy Teal (Data Carpentry / BEACON)</li>
<li>Katy Huff (UC Berkeley)</li>
<li>Adam Stone (LBL: Sick, No Voice)</li>
</ul>
<p>Apologies</p>
<ul>
<li>Carole Goble (U. Manchester)</li>
</ul>
<p>Actions</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Board: mext meeting on Tue Nov 18 (same time unless Doodle poll finds a better one).</p></li>
<li><p>Board: vote on bylaws/funding model at Nov 18 meeting.</p></li>
<li><p>Board: add all funding/partnership leads to <code>funding</code> directory of <code>board_pvt</code> repository with details of what is being offered by end of business on Friday Nov 7 2014.</p></li>
<li><p>GW to separate the list of current funding proposals into "immediate action" vs. "those that require confirmation of partnership/revenue model".</p></li>
<li><p>GW/JB: sort out ownership of funding repository.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Unresolved</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Board agreed to discuss roles and responsibilities of Board members at next meeting, but nobody was assigned to draft.</p></li>
<li><p>GW would like to begin talking to several potential partners (list included below), but meeting ended before this could be discussed.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Resolutions</p>
<ul>
<li>Job description for Executive Director approved.</li>
<li><p>See <code>executive-director.md</code> in public <code>board</code> repository.</p></li>
<li>Executive Director position offered to Greg Wilson.</li>
<li><p>Greg provisionally accepts conditional on agreement on SCF by-laws</p></li>
<li>Description of the role and responsibilities of the chair approved.</li>
<li><p>See <code>board-chair.md</code> in public <code>board</code> repository.</p></li>
<li>Board Chair position offered to Neil Chue Hong.</li>
<li><p>Neil accepted on the provision that it is the chair of the interim board.</p></li>
<li>Board to vote by email on final text of mission statement for the Software Carpentry Foundation by Thursday Nov 6.</li>
<li><p>See <code>mission-statement.md</code> in public <code>board</code> repository.</p></li>
<li><p>The acronym "SCF" will be used for the Software Carpentry Foundation.</p></li>
<li>Guidelines for issue escalation and communication between workshop coordinators, the Executive Director, and the Board of Directors adopted.</li>
<li><p>See <code>issue-escalation.md</code> in public <code>board</code> repository.</p></li>
<li>"Pursuit of Funding" resolution adopted, and all Board members promptly inform the Board of all ongoing fund-raising activities involving Software Carpentry.</li>
<li><p>Note: wording "on an Etherpad" in original text has been replaced by "in the Git repository and by email", since we're moving away from Etherpads (see below).</p></li>
<li><p>Documents for discussion will be managed through the Git repository rather than through Etherpads, and conversations will be managed through GitHub issues.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Discussion</p>
<ul>
<li>Should Board members sign non-disclosure agreements?</li>
<li>No.</li>
<li>Instead, sharing of information (i.e. a culture of disclosure). should be enshrined in the description of the role of a Board member.</li>
<li>How to balance funding sought by SCF vs funding for SCF through partners?</li>
<li><p>Good faith.</p></li>
<li>Do board members share specifics of what they're offering to do w.r.t. Software Carpentry with potential partners to help with capacity planning etc.?</li>
<li><p>Yes.</p></li>
<li><p>The Board requested more time to comment on the three-tier model for partnership, and committed to voting at the next meeting on Nov 18.</p></li>
<li><p>The board requested more time to comment on the revenue sharing model for workshops, and committed to voting at the next meeting on Nov 18.</p></li>
<li>For next meeting:</li>
<li>Approval of by-laws.</li>
<li>Approval of partnership model.</li>
<li>Approval of revenue sharing / management model for workshops</li>
<li>including agreement of what to do with future workshop donations</li>
<li><p>Define/vote on roles and responsibilities of board members.</p></li>
<li>For subsequent meeting:</li>
<li>Propose operations communication procedure for SCF staff and workshop hosts.
<ul>
<li>Requires linkage to partnership model.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>
