---
layout: page
authors: ["Greg Wilson"]
title: Minutes from 2012-10-29 All-Hands Meeting
date: 2012-10-30
time: "10:00:00"
tags: ["Community", "Software Carpentry"]
---

<p><b>This post originally appeared on the <a href="https://software-carpentry.org/">Software Carpentry website.</a></b></p>
<p>We held our first online all-hands meeting yesterday (Monday, October 29), and despite Hurricane Sandy, 28 people were able to attend. Minutes from the meeting are given below; we have a lot to do, but we're very excited to be doing it.</p>

<strong>In attendance:</strong>
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>Aron Ahmadia</li>
          <li>Carlos Anderson</li>
          <li>Azalee Bostroem</li>
          <li>Erik Bray</li>
          <li>Steve Crouch</li>
          <li>Matt Davis</li>
          <li>Ross Dickson</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>Justin Ely</li>
          <li>Julia Gustavsen</li>
          <li>Tommy Guy</li>
          <li>Steve Haddock</li>
          <li>Ted Hart</li>
          <li>Konrad Hinsen</li>
          <li>Katy Huff</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>Emily Jane McTavish</li>
          <li>Trevor King</li>
          <li>Justin Kitzes</li>
          <li>Ian Langmore</li>
          <li>Ian Mitchell</li>
          <li>Aleksandra Pawlik</li>
          <li>Ariel Rokem</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>Anthony Scopatz</li>
          <li>Chang She</li>
          <li>Joshua Smith</li>
          <li>Laura Tremblay-Boyer</li>
          <li>Ben Waugh</li>
          <li>Ethan White</li>
          <li>Greg Wilson</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<strong>Minutes</strong>
<ol>
  <li><strong>Attendance and no-shows</strong>
    <ul>
      <li>Attendance ranges from less than 50% to over 100% of those who register</li>
      <li>Former case is disappointing (to instructors) and unfair (to those left on the wait list)</li>
      <li>Options:
        <ol>
          <li>Have people to register in groups/teams
            <ul>
              <li>Worked well at UC London and elsewhere</li>
              <li>Difficult to implement on EventBrite</li>
              <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Try out team signup at upcoming workshops</span></em></li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>Try a registration charge (e.g., $20) which we keep, return after attendance, or give to charity
            <ul>
              <li>Institutions may start charging us for space if any money changes hands
                <ul>
                  <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Find out if we can charge for attendance without being charged in turn</span></em></li>
                </ul>
              </li>
              <li>Returning money to attendees is difficult (getting credit card number and only charging for no-show is equally fraught)</li>
              <li>What charity would we donate to? (Software Carpentry isn't a non-profit)</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Licensing</strong>
    <ul>
      <li>Existing content is CC-BY / MIT licensed</li>
      <li>Do <em>not</em> want to have to manage content with multiple licenses</li>
      <li>Need sign-off from contributors</li>
      <li>Linux <a href="http://kernel.org/doc/Documentation/SubmittingPatches">Submitting Patches</a> guide and GitHub's <a href="https://github.com/blog/1184-contributing-guidelines">Contributing Guidelines</a> are both examples we can copy.</li>
      <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Incorporate licensing agreement into web site</span></em></li>
      <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Get retroactive signoff for existing material</span></em></li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Workshop/participant level mismatch</strong>
    <ul>
      <li>Most common complaints about workshops are "too fast" and "too slow"</li>
      <li>describes our target</li>
      <li>Telling people what we expect as background hasn't worked
        <ul>
          <li>People who don't know enough to absorb what we teach show up in the hopes that they'll get something, and are then lost</li>
          <li>People who know much of what we're teaching show up in the hopes of learning something new, and are bored</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Having people send us material for evaluation (e.g., code sample) doesn't scale
        <ul>
          <li>"I think the people in my field able to produce a code example are way ahead of the group that needs the most help."</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Use a <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/blog/2012/10/two-self-assessments.html">self-assessment?</a>
        <ul>
          <li>People will still undershoot/overshoot and show up anyway</li>
          <li>Pre-tests scare away some of the people we most want to help</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Ask them to work through a free online course before coming to us?
        <ul>
          <li>MOOCs work best for people who already understand concepts and want to add information...</li>
          <li>...which isn't our audience...</li>
          <li>...and many people who are willing to try a two-day workshop probably won't commit to a full course (up front)</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Experiment with pre-assessments for upcoming workshops</span></em>
        <ul>
          <li>Make completion of the pre-assessment a condition for getting a ticket</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Impact Assessment</strong>
    <ul>
      <li>We don't know what impact we're having (but funders would really like to)</li>
      <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Collect names/email addresses of actual workshop participants to contact later</span></em></li>
      <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Design lightweight post-workshop instrument for use 3 months after</span></em></li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Migrating the <a href="http://svn.software-carpentry.org/swc">Software Carpentry repository</a> to GitHub</strong>
    <ul>
      <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Find examples of people doing collaborative course development using Git</span></em></li>
      <li>Need to reach consensus on one-big-repo vs. lots-of-little-repos</li>
      <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Produce short A-or-B position statements on Git organization by Nov 7 for vote</span></em></li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Online Lessons</strong>
    <ul>
      <li>Broadcast video tutorials didn't work well</li>
      <li>Forums hosted at Software Carpentry didn't do well in 2010</li>
      <li><a href="http://scicomp.stackexchange.com/">SciComp Stack Exchange</a> isn't intended for novice questions about shell, version control, etc.</li>
      <li>Local learning groups (once-a-week lunchtime sessions) seemed to work well
        <ul>
          <li>And when video tutorials <em>did</em> work, it was partly because participants were co-located, e.g., watching a single screen in a small group and talking amongst themselves out of band</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Experiment with online office hours</span></em></li>
      <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Create "Software Carpentry" tag on Stack Exchange</span></em></li>
      <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Re-launch our own forums</span></em>
        <ul>
          <li>Given how many workshops we're running, and how closely they're scheduled, maybe this time there would be critical mass</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Targeting Specific Audiences</strong>
    <ul>
      <li>Our mission is not to teach Python (or Bash, or Subversion), but to teach scientists how to think like programmers:
        <ul>
          <li>to grow programs in a structured, repeatable way (create and combine lots of little tools)</li>
          <li>to manage and share what they build (version control, readable code, provenance)</li>
          <li>to be confident that it's right (defensive programming, testing, debugging)</li>
          <li>to automate, automate, automate (build system, and the very idea of programming)</li>
        </ul>
        and to do this using open source tools as far as possible.</li>
      <li>Using R instead of Python fits this mission (see <a href="https://github.com/jkitzes/writeups/tree/master/swc_r_workshops">Justin Kitzes' summary</a>)</li>
      <li>Teaching MPI doesn't</li>
      <li>What about teaching these concepts in C or Fortran to people who already speak the language?</li>
      <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Try using R instead of Python</span></em></li>
      <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Try using C or Fortran without teaching the language itself</span></em></li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Workshop Sprint in 2013</strong>
    <ul>
      <li>Initial idea: bring Europeans over to help run a bunch of workshops in North American in late March 2013, then send North Americans over to help teach another bunch in late June
        <ul>
          <li>Good for publicity</li>
          <li>A good way for people to meet each other and build ties</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Are (some) people able to take 2-3 weeks to do this? Yes.
        <ul>
          <li>Particularly if they give academic talks at the same time as teaching workshops, which everyone should.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Does the timing work? Exams, people leaving to work at field stations, etc.</li>
      <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Find out who's available when for workshop sprint</span></em></li>
      <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Find budget for workshop sprint</span></em></li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Content Sprint in 2013</strong>
    <ul>
      <li>Independently of the workshop sprint, bring people together for a one-week sprint on content
        <ul>
          <li>Or possibly 2-3 sites (e.g., London, Toronto, Mountain View) connected by virtual presence</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Find out who's available when for content sprint</span></em></li>
      <li><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Find budget for content sprint</span></em></li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Deferred</strong>
    <ul>
      <li>IPython Notebooks experience report</li>
      <li>Git experience report</li>
      <li>What to do about Windows?</li>
      <li>Badging</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ol>
<strong>Actions</strong>
<ol>
  <li>Try out team signup at upcoming workshops. [pending new workshops]</li>
  <li>Find out if we can charge for attendance without being charged in turn. [all]</li>
  <li>Incorporate licensing agreement into web site. [GVW]</li>
  <li>Get retroactive signoff for existing material. [GVW]</li>
  <li>Experiment with pre-assessments for upcoming workshops. [pending design and new workshops]</li>
  <li>Collect names/email addresses of actual workshop participants to contact later. [all]</li>
  <li>Design lightweight post-workshop instrument for use 3 months after. [WC, MH]</li>
  <li>Find examples of people doing collaborative course development using Git. [any?]</li>
  <li>Produce short A-or-B position statements on Git organization by Nov 7 for vote. [KH + AA, MD, TG, TK, CS, JS]</li>
  <li>Experiment with online office hours. [KH, others?]</li>
  <li>Create "Software Carpentry" tag on Stack Exchange. [volunteer?]</li>
  <li>Re-launch our own forums. [deferred]</li>
  <li>Try using R instead of Python. [TH, JK, LTB]</li>
  <li>Try using C or Fortran without teaching the language itself. [AA, KH]</li>
  <li>Find out who's available when for workshop sprint. [GVW]</li>
  <li>Find budget for workshop sprint. [GVW]</li>
  <li>Find out who's available when for content sprint. [GVW]</li>
  <li>Find budget for content sprint. [GVW]</li>
</ol>
Note: GVW would <em>really</em> appreciate a volunteer to tackle #15-18.
<table border="1">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>AA</td>
      <td>Aron Ahmadia</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>WC</td>
      <td>Warren Code</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>MD</td>
      <td>Matt Davis</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>TG</td>
      <td>Tommy Guy</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>MH</td>
      <td>Mike Hansen</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>TH</td>
      <td>Ted Hart</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>KH</td>
      <td>Konrad Hinsen</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>KH</td>
      <td>Katy Huff</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>JK</td>
      <td>Justin Kitzes</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>TK</td>
      <td>Trevor King</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>CS</td>
      <td>Chang She</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>JS</td>
      <td>Joshua Smith</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>LTB</td>
      <td>Laura Tremblay-Boyer</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>GVW</td>
      <td>Greg Wilson</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

