---
layout: post
author: "Anelda van der Walt"
title: "2016 Election: Anelda van der Walt"
date: 2016-01-15
time: "15:00:00"
category: ["Software Carpentry Foundation", "Election 2016", "Steering Committee"]
---
## Who am I?

I have always been involved with, and am passionate about,
multidisciplinary, multi-institutional projects. Over the last six
years most of my work has focused on collaboratively providing support
and training to researchers at various institutions across South
Africa. Initially the support focussed specifically in areas of Next
Generation Sequencing as I was employed by two national *omics
platforms, but more recently I've participated in local eResearch
initiatives. Through eResearch I've been fortunate to collaborate with
researchers from a broad array of disciplines including life
scientists, medical doctors, engineers, linguists, historians, and
more. While I may not be the most computationally advanced person in
this community, I have a knack for creating connections between those
who need help and those who can help. I specifically love to work with
people who are blissfully unaware of the power of technology, and upon
exposure, blossoms into the greatest advocates and users with huge
impact.

My exposure to researchers at all career stages from a wide array of
institutions highlighted the dire state of computational adoption as
well as the challenges associated with trying to adopt better
practices.  To help address this need I created a company,
[Talarify](http://www.talarify.co.za), at the end of 2014. Initially
it focused on building sustainable computational capacity amongst NGS
researchers in South Africa - specifically within research groups and
not only individuals. In 2015 Talarify expanded its focus and joined
forces with [North-West University](http://www.nwu.ac.za)(NWU) to aid
in development of the [NWU eResearch
Initiative](https://twitter.com/NWU_eResearch) together with IT,
Libraries, and Research Support Office.

Formal education include an MSc in Bioinformatics from the [South
African National Bioinformatics Institute](http://www.sanbi.ac.za) and
undergraduate and honours in Genetics.

## Software Carpentry and me

Software Carpentry has been on my radar for several years, but in
November 2014 I was involved in running a [local
workshop]({{page.baseurl}}/blog/2014/12/cape-town-swc.html) for the
first time. I've subsequently organised or co-organised 5 more
workshops and one remote instructor training (thanks to Greg's support
and the enthusiastic help of our great local instructors and
hosts). For more info about [South African Software Carpentry
Activities]({{page.baseurl}}blog/2016/01/a-year-of-swc-in-south-africa.html)
please read our recent [blog
post]({{page.baseurl}}blog/2016/01/a-year-of-swc-in-south-africa.html).

I've also been summarising Software Carpentry activities in blog
format since January 2015 and briefly helped out with the Twitter
account. I've submitted (small) pull requests to the Shell lesson,
participated in the 2015 Instructor Retreat in London, and have been a
massive local advocate for Software and Data Carpentry in South Africa
across all organisations I engage with.

## What can I offer?

It's easy to see how South Africa and I can personally benefit from
our continued and increased involvement in Software Carpentry, but
what can I bring to you?

Through my work with NWU I am involved with national initiatives such
as the [Institute for Data Intensive
Astronomy](http://www.gov.za/speeches/minister-naledi-pandor-launch-inter-university-institute-data-intensive-astronomy-idia-3)
and the [African Research
Cloud](http://www.scidev.net/sub-saharan-africa/data/news/new-alliancespur-ska-data-research-capacity.html)
which are great avenues for expanding the reach of Software Carpentry
into South Africa and possibly even Africa. We've already had interest
from researchers in Namibia and Mozambique to run workshops in their
countries. I would love to help significantly expand the instructor
base on our continent and could offer mentoring and advice to others
who want to build Software Carpentry capacity in poorly resourced or
isolated environments.

I also serve on the [Silicon Cape
Initiative](http://www.siliconcape.com/) subcommittee for [Women in
Technology](http://www.siliconcape.com/profiles/blogs/silicon-cape-women-portfolio-subcommittee-members-announced). There
are untapped opportunities here to help build communities to support
our workshop participants, and to partner in offering workshops
specifically for women and other underrepresented groups.

The Software Carpentry Community have provided me with inspiration,
solutions, answers, and resources to empower others with, and I'd be
honoured to help drive this organisation and its community forward
into 2016.

You can find me at [@aneldavdw](https://twitter.com/aneldavdw) or
anelda-AT-talarify-DOT-co-DOT-za.
